_projects/2015-03-07-project-3.md, before:

---
layout: project
title: 2D Quadrotor Optimization
date: February 10, 2015
image: https://github.com/guiklink/portfolio/blob/gh-pages/public/images/2D_quad_opt/logo.png?raw=true
---

# Introduction
As my final project for the Numerical Methods in Optimal Control class I applied a Gradient Descent and some of its different techniques (e.g. Armijo Theorem, Ricatti Theorem, trajectory projections) on quadrotors, one of my main areas of interest. The goal is to optimize the force input needed to be generated by its rotors in order to be compliant to a given trajectory in the best way possible according to its dynamics. 
For this project I used Wolfram Mathematica, the recommended software for the class and due to its facility in performing symbolic calculation, plots and animations. However, Mathematica does not achieve the same performance as languages such as C++ and complex calculations will need to be done, therefore one of the drawbacks of this project is the time it takes processing before generating an animation. In order to optimize the process by simplifying the math, I reduced the number of differential equations in the dynamics of the quadrotor. Let's assume instead we are using a "dualrotor" the quadrotor of the 2D world, as shown in the figure bellow:

Commit message:

Project 3 (2D Quadrotor) edited. Pictures axis label added. Text added.

_projects/2015-03-07-project-3.md, after:

---
layout: project
title: 2D Quadrotor Optimization
date: February 10, 2015
image: https://github.com/guiklink/portfolio/blob/gh-pages/public/images/2D_quad_opt/logo.png?raw=true
---

# Introduction
As my final project for the Numerical Methods in Optimal Control class I applied a Gradient Descent and some of its different techniques (e.g. Armijo Theorem, Ricatti Theorem, trajectory projections) on quadrotors, one of my main areas of interest. The goal is to optimize the force input needed to be generated by its rotors in order to be compliant to a given trajectory in the best way possible according to its dynamics. 
For this project I used Wolfram Mathematica, the recommended software for the class and due to its facility in performing symbolic calculation, plots and animations. However, Mathematica does not achieve the same performance as languages such as C++ and complex calculations will need to be done, therefore one of the drawbacks of this project is the time it takes processing before generating an animation. In order to optimize the process by simplifying the math, I reduced the number of differential equations in the dynamics of the quadrotor. Let's assume instead we are using a "dualrotor" the quadrotor of the 2D world, as shown in the scheme bellow:

![2D_quadrotor](https://github.com/guiklink/portfolio/blob/gh-pages/public/images/2D_quad_opt/2dQuad_1.png?raw=true)

In the representation above the X-axis point to the righ, the Y-axis points to the interior of the screen and the Z-axis points down. F1 and F2 are forces caused by the trust generated by the rotors 1 and 2, which can move the "dualrotor" by translations in X-axis and Z-axis and a rotation ϴ around the Y-axis (Pitch).
